welcome back my guess is a veteran guard
for the LA Lakers and also is the
president of the NBA Players Association
i'm joined by Derek Fisher nice to have
you back Eric how are you I'm good Jim
how are you doing great Derek thank you
you know looking at it from the outside
it doesn't look very good it doesn't
sound very good is there any reason for
optimism at this point well there's
always reason for optimism when you have
an opportunity to to get this deal done
and we do have that opportunity to get a
fair deal done for our players and a
fair deal done for our game and we want
to get back to work and we hope we can
get our players back out there for our
fans to see very soon so let's talk
about the Union itself there were
reports that there was a separation
within the ranks that there were certain
fractures within the ranks is that true
no that's not true you know our players
are together we're unified we understand
the situation that we're in we realized
that the lockout is owner impose not
player imposed and in terms of the news
and the fracture that really wasn't the
case we had an opportunity a week ago to
clear that up and make sure that we all
understood you know where we are as a
group we accomplished that goal and now
we're focusing on just getting this deal
done Derek the players are unified right
now will they remain so once they start
missing checks I believe so we've
continued to educate our players and
inform our guys of you know the
circumstances they'll face will all face
in the event that we do not start to
receive our paychecks at the normal time
we've all continued to be informed
educated financially legally proper
planning insurance wise we've been
working for this time for two years now
and I think our guys understand the
decisions they need to make and the
things they need to do to prepare in the
event they're faced with an extended
lockout and the certainly was a show of
solidarity at that meeting in Las Vegas
recently we saw 40 some-odd players
stand behind you but at the same time
you didn't see some of the bigger names
are you disappointed that the bigger
names are not taking more active role in
this no actually to be honest Jim they
are taking a huge role in this process
they haven't you know run after the
cameras in
to the spotlight when we've had you know
meetings and and opportunities to visit
with the media but LeBron and Carmelo
and Kobe and chauncey billups and Amar'e
Stoudemire and Joe Johnson and Paul
Pierce and Kevin Garnett named after
name these guys have been at meetings
they've been on conference calls with
myself they've been on conference calls
with billy hunter in our executive
committee so all of our guys are
involved in the process making sure
their voices heard I'm in constant
communication personally with guys from
the top of the pole to the bottom of the
pole in terms of star status and we're
all in this together and working hard to
try and get this deal done so the fact
that they're doing their work behind the
scenes is that by design it's by design
just because of how this is set up we
have an executive committee we have a
board and we're elected to do a job we
have player representatives for each
individual team they're elected by their
teams to do a job we cannot have a
process where 430 plus guys are all
involved at one time so at different
times you're going to have higher
involvement based on what we need but
when we need our guys to step up and
they're providing input for us they've
been there and they'll continue to be
there and they've made that very clear
to us throughout this entire process
Derek the owners have made it pretty
clear they want a hard cap are they
going to get it no they won't and we've
been clear on that point from the
beginning that if this deal is going to
hinge on there being a hard salary cap
there won't be a deal we just don't
believe and we strongly don't believe
that it's best for the game of
basketball for various reasons but most
importantly you know it would basically
lead to the elimination of players the
ability to have guaranteed contracts our
star players would always be able to to
garner top wages and get guaranteed
contracts but by and large everyone else
would be stuck with mostly
non-guaranteed contracts so we just
don't see it as the best way to promote
what we're being told as more parity and
better competitive balance
that's not the environment you want to
work in on the basketball team when
everybody's fighting every six months to
try and outdo each other Turkey's
certifications seemed to work for the
nflpa why have you not done that what's
the difference between your situation in
theirs well our situation you know one
it's obviously a different game a
different model you know we have a case
pending with the National Labor
Relations Board who's actually the only
governing body that can make these type
of decisions when it really comes to
labor law and labor negotiations so
we're confident that we'll get a
response there but in the meantime we're
just focused on the the actual
negotiation of the deal itself you know
because of the legal specifics of
dealing with the certification we're
just not in a position to discuss it and
continue to discuss it so you know I'm
going to continue to refrain from trying
to expound on what we're considering
doing those are things that are internal
decisions will continue to make and
every decision will always be made with
our players best interests in mind let's
they talk about the players being on the
same page do you think the owners are
all in the same page uh you know
obviously I can only speculate I'm not
in the room when they're all together
but I made statements last week and I'll
stick with those statements that I don't
believe that all of our team owners are
together I believe there are you know
varying opinions on you know what type
of revenue sharing model they should
create amongst themselves and to me
that's a big hurdle it's a big
impediment to getting this deal done
we've tried very hard to express our
desire to include the revenue sharing
discussion discussion you know within
the framework of getting a collective
bargaining agreement done we've
continued to get pushed back that the
NBA is working on a more robust revenue
sharing model but we have no idea what
that means we don't have any parameters
we don't have any understanding of what
kind of model they're working on and
what party can play because we know it
will help but we don't know what part it
will play from their standpoint in
eliminating some of these losses for
some teams so finally Derek do you feel
like the owners are trying to just do
biz
and negotiate the best possible the deal
they can for themselves or do you think
they were looking to do that and break
the Union in the process well you know
breaking the Union in the process comes
with you know trying to squeeze out the
very best deal you can regardless of the
circumstances they adam silver and david
stern and peter hull can continue to
make statements that you know express
their desire or lack thereof to
quote-unquote break the Union but when
you continue to press for demands on the
system side and in the economics that
will in fact do that if we were to agree
to that deal then it doesn't really
matter what you say your actions speak
louder than your words and so far the
proposal that stands on the table from
the NBA is one that we cannot accept so
we'll continue to work hard to get this
deal done as soon as possible we want to
play basketball we know that our fans
want to see basketball I know that
everywhere I go that's the first
question I get so I'd love to get this
deal done but it has to be one that's
fair for all of our guys NBA PA
President Derek Fisher Derek thanks for
the visit appreciate it thank you Jim